.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1999 Terje Eggestad <terje.eggestad@iname.com>
.\" May be distributed under the GNU General Public License.
.\" $Id$
.\" $Name$
.\"
.TH MWALLOC 3C  DATE "MidWay 1.0" "MidWay Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
mwalloc, mwrealloc mwfree \- Allocate and free MidWay Shared memory buffers.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <MidWay.h>
.sp
.BI "char * mwalloc (unsigned int size);"
.br
.BI "char * mwrealloc(char * buffer, unsigned int newsize);"
.br
.BI "void mwfree(char * buffer);"
.SH DESCRIPTION
MidWay uses buffers in a shared memory segment to pass data to and from processes, such as by
.BR mwcall ().
Even if
.BR mwcall ()
and is like don't require buffers to be alloced by 
.BR mwalloc ()
before called. They will automatically alloc a shared memory buffer and copy over. 
.sp
In the 
.BR mwattach ()
call you can set a flag 
.B MWFASTPATH 
or 
.B MWSAFEPATH 
(default). On 
.B MWSAFEPATH
.BR mwalloc () 
is actually mapped to 
.BR malloc ()
anyway. You must set 
.B MWFASTPATH
to actually be given a pointer to shared memory.
.sp
The above holds true only if you use IPC to attach the MidWay domain. If you use TCP/IP, 
.BR mwalloc (), 
.BR mwrealloc "(), and" mwfree () 
are always identical to 
.BR malloc (), 
.BR realloc (), 
and 
.BR free ().
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
Always a pointer to a memory location at least the size of 
.IR size .
Of failure we get NULL, and 
.I errno 
is set to 
.BR ENOMEM .
.br 
.SH WARNINGS
Be aware that if you alloc a buffers and hold it a long time, and you have 
.B MWFASTPATH 
set, 
you are at any give time using more shared memory buffers than with
.BR MWSAFEPATH .
.br
Likewise, if on 
.B MWFASTPATH 
there are nothing to prevent you from overriting neigbouring 
buffers, and thus creating havoc on the whole domain. It is normal to use 
.B MWSAFEPATH 
during 
developing phases and one critical systems, and to ise 
.B MWFASTPATH
on speed critical applications. Of course the gain of using 
.B MWFASTPATH
increases with increased buffer lengths.
.sp
The MidWay daemon 
.BR mwd (1)
do occationally try a garbage collect, but only after dead processes. 
.sp
If 
.BR mwrealloc ()
is passwd a NULL pointer, it return a NULL pointer.
.SH EXAMPLES

.SH BUGS 

.SH "SEE ALSO"

.BR mwattach (3C), 
.BR mwcall (3C), 
.BR mwservice (3C), 
.BR mwreply (3C), 
.BR malloc (3), 
.BR realloc (3), 
.BR free (3)

.SH STANDARDS
NONE
