.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1999 Terje Eggestad <terje.eggestad@iname.com>
.\" May be distributed under the GNU General Public License.
.\"
.TH MWFORWARD 3C  DATE "MidWay 1.0" "MidWay Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
mwforward \- MidWay service calls
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <MidWay.h>
.sp
.BI "int mwforward(char * svcname, char * data, int len, int flags);"
.SH DESCRIPTION
This is used by service routines only. It enables the service routine to forward the 
request to another service. Note that the request never return back to the service routine
but is returned directly back to the client from the next service handler. 
That means of course that 
.BR mwreply ()
and 
.BR mwforward ()
are mutually exclusive.

This is often used to make a pipeline, where different services handle
separate parts of the request.

The only flags legal is MWNOBLOCK.

.SH "RETURN VALUES"
0 on success else -error.

.SH "ERRORS"

.TP
.B ENOENT
There are no service with servicename available.
.TP 
.B ENOTCONN 
The calling process has not performed a successful mwattach() 
and is thus not attach to a running system.
.TP 
.B EINVAL
flags has a undefined flag set.
.TP 
.B EINTR
The subroutine was interrupted by a signal. (Actually one of the
underlying msgrcv() or select() system calls were.)
.TP
.B ENOBUFS
We are out of MidWays shared memory buffers, see 
.BR mwd (1).
 
.TP
.B EAGAIN
The call would block and MWNOBLOCK flags was set. 

.SH WARNINGS

.SH EXAMPLES

.SH BUGS 

.SH "SEE ALSO"

.BR mwacall (3C)

.SH STANDARDS
NONE
