.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1999 Terje Eggestad <terje.eggestad@iname.com>
.\" May be distributed under the GNU General Public License.
.\" $Id$
.\" $Name$
.\"
.TH MWLISTSVC 3C  DATE "MidWay 1.0" "MidWay Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
mwlistsvc \- get the list of services in the MidWay instance we're attached to
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <MidWay.h>
.sp
.BI "int mwlistsvc(char * " glob ", char *** " servicelist ", int " flags ");"
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
This function provides a way to find out what services is provided in
the MidWay instance you're attached to. It return a unique but
unsorted list. The list is retured via the servicelist parameter and
the function return the number of entries in the list. (see below)

Services beginning with a periode are ignored by default and can only
be seen with an explicit glob.

.SS OPTIONS
.TP
.I glob
A globpattern to limit the matches. Maybe NULL, it then defaults to
"*". Using a correct glob may be a performance boost, especially over
a SRBP network connection since the glob is sent to the gateway man
matched there. 
.TP
.I servicelist
A pointer to a char ** variable. 
.BR mwlistsvc ()
will alloc a single memory chunk for the array of char pointers and
the strings themselves, so if must be freed with a single call to
.BR free ().
The length or the array ir given as the return from the call, but the
array is also NULL terminated.
.TP
.I flags
Currently unused. 

.SH "RETURN VALUES"
On error -errno, or the number of entries in the array of strings, and
of course 0 if no matches.

.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EINVAL
if servicelist is NULL
.TP
.B EFAULT
The glob pattern if illegal, see 
.BR fnmatch (3C). 
.B ENAVAIL
You're not attached.

.SH EXAMPLES

.nf 
   int rc, i; 
   char ** plist;

   rc = mwlistsvc(NULL, &plist, 0);
   for (i = 0; i < rc; i++) {
      printf ("service number %d: %s\n", i, plist[i]);
   }
.fi
	
.SH BUGS 

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR MidWay "(7), " mwcall (3C)

.BR 

.SH STANDARDS
NONE
