.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1999 Terje Eggestad <terje.eggestad@iname.com>
.\" May be distributed under the GNU General Public License.
.\" $Id$
.\" $Name$
.\"
.TH MWPROVIDE 3C  DATE "MidWay 1.0" "MidWay Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
mwprovide mwunprovide \- The act of making services available in the MidWay instance
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <MidWay.h>
.sp
.BI "int mwprovide(char * " service ", int (*" svcfunc ") (mwsvcinfo*), int " flags ");"
.br
.BI "int mwunprovide(char * " service ");"
.SH DESCRIPTION
These calls control which services a server provides to the MidWay instance. The
.I service
argument gives the name the service shall be known under in the instance. The max length of teh 
service name is 32 (see MidWay.h). Legal characters in the name is all upper and 
lower characters (a-z) all digits, underscore, minus, plus, and period. 
Service names with leading periodes will not be exported to other instances thru gateways 
unless explisitly named and renamed to a name without a leading periode. 
.br
The 
.I srvfunc
is a pointer to the C function that is the service routine. See 
.BR mwservice (3C) 
on how to write these functions. The supported flags are:
.TP
.B MWCONV
This is a conversational service.
.TP
.B MWSTDIO
Only legal on conversational services. The file descriptor for the socket is also 
available on filedescriptor 0 (stdin) and 1 (stdout). 
.TP
.B MWUNIQUE
If 
.BR mwprovide ()
succeds, this server will be the one and only service providing this service.
(with in the instance?? or globally???)


.SH "RETURN VALUES"
o on success, and -errno on failure.
.SH "ERRORS"

.SH WARNINGS
You can also use 
.BR mwprovide ()
in a service routine to do this in run-time, which is a good thing, 
but You can do 
.BR mwunprovide ()
on services provided by 
.BR mwserver ()
or thru 
.BR mwd (). 
It would then be impossible to re provide it without a server restart.
I might add a dynamic/static flag to a service in a future version of MidWay.
.SH EXAMPLES

.SH BUGS 

.SH "SEE ALSO"

.BR

.SH STANDARDS
NONE
