.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1999 Terje Eggestad <terje.eggestad@iname.com>
.\" May be distributed under the GNU General Public License.
.\" $Id$
.\" $Name$
..\"
.TH MWREPLY 3C  DATE "MidWay 1.0" "MidWay Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
mwreply, mwreturn \- Returning data from service routines
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <MidWay.h>
.sp
.BI "int mwreply(char * " reply ", int " replylen ", int " successflag ", int " applicationreturncode ", int " flags ");"
.sp
.BI "mwreturn(char * " reply ", int " replylen ", int " successflag ", int " applicationreturncode ");"
.SH DESCRIPTION
mwreturn is quite simply an alias for mwreply followed by a 
.IR return (successflag) .  
It is offered as a convenience only.

This function is used in a service routine to return a reply to the
service request. The
.I reply 
argument is a pointer to the data to be sent. If NULL no data is
returned, only return codes, and the calling client gets confirmation
that the call was executed.  If
.I replylen 
is 0, we assume a NULL terminated reply string. The 
.I successflag 
is interpreted by MidWay as success of failure. (Not really used, but
important for future support for the XA interface, where a failure
causes a rollback.)  Zero on failure, non zero for success.
.BR mwfetch ()
on the client will return EFAULT if this flag is zero.
In addition to successflag programmers may pass another return code, 
.I applicationreturncode
for private use. MidWay ignore it, so it is optional.
.sp
The only legal 
.I flag 
is MWMORE, which signal that the server intends to issue more
mwreply's. It is only legal is the calling client set the MWMULTIPLE flag.

If the service perform a normal C return without calling
.BR  mwreply ()
first, the input buffer is returned, and the C return code is used as successflag.
.sp
Note that if the 
.BR mw(a)call () 
had  the 
.B MWNOREPLY
flag set (see mwservice()) this call is silently ignored and may be omitted.

.SH RETURN VALUES
On success mwreply return 1, on failure, -errno. mwreturn do of course never return.

.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EINVAL
mwreply return -EINVAL if the MWMORE flags is set, and the client has not set
the MWMULTIPLE flag.
.TP
.B EALREADY
mwreply return -EALREADY if mwreply was previously called without
MWMORE flag, or if the client has set the MWNOREPLY flag.

.SH WARNINGS
It is very bad practice to omit this call. If you do a mwrealloc() on
the input buffer and return by C return, you will pass back the
original buffer, and cause a buffer leak. I may change this practice
in the future, if I find that is as bad an idea as I believe it to be.

.SH EXAMPLES

.SH BUGS 

.SH "SEE ALSO"

.BR mwservice (3C), mwcall (3C), mwacall (3C), mwfetch (3C), mwalloc (3C), mwrealloc (3C), mwfree (3C) 

.SH STANDARDS
NONE
