.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1999 Terje Eggestad <terje.eggestad@iname.com>
.\" May be distributed under the GNU General Public License.
.\" $Id$
.\" $Name$
..\"
.TH MWSERVICEREQUEST 3C  DATE "MiddleWay 1.0" "MiddleWay Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
mwservicerequest () \- Gets a service request of the input queue and executes the function for the service.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <MiddleWay.h>
.sp
.BI "int mwservicerequest(int flags);"
.SH DESCRIPTION
For every time this is called it gets a service request of the IPC message queue the server
has to receive MiddleWay data on. It then lookup the registered (with 
.BR mwprovide ()) 
function that shall perform the service request. 
.br 
If the next request is not a service request then it exits with a propper return code.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
0 on success, otherwise a negative errno.
.SH "ERRORS"
.TP
.B EINTR
A signal was delivered to the program 
.IR "while in msgrcv" . 
If you want to know which one, or to watch signals during execution of service routines, 
install a signal handler.
.TP
.B EAGAIN
.I flags
& 
.B MWNOBLOCK
is true and now service calls are wainting on the message queue.
.TP
.B ENOTCONN
Either 
.BR mwattach ()
has not yet been called, or it failed, or 
.BR mwdetach ()
has been called.
.B ESHUTDOWN
The MiddleWay daemon 
.BR  mwd (1)
has sent us an instruction to exit. We are required to do so.
.TP
.B ENOENT
There are currently not service handles registered by 
.BR mwprovide (). 

.SH WARNINGS

.SH EXAMPLES

.SH BUGS 

.SH "SEE ALSO"

.BR mwMainLoop(3C)

.SH STANDARDS
NONE
