.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000 Terje Eggestad <terje.eggestad@iname.com>
.\" May be distributed under the GNU General Public License.
.\" $Id$
.\" $Name$
.\"
.TH URLMAPADD 3C  DATE "MidWay 1.0" "MidWay Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
urlmapadd, urlmapnaddn, urlmapaddi, urlmapdel \- Add and delete
entries in an urlmap array.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <urlencode.h>
.sp
.BI "urlmap * urlmapnadd (urlmap * " map ", char * " key ", void * " value ", int " len ");"
.br
.BI "urlmap * urlmapadd (urlmap * " map ", char * " key ", char * " value ");"
.br
.BI "urlmap * urlmapaddi (urlmap * " map ", char * " key ", int " value ");"
.br
.BI "int urlmapdel (urlmap * " map ", char * " key ");"

.SH DESCRIPTION
The base function is 
.BR urlmapnadd ().
It places a new entry at the end of the map array where 
.I key 
is a NULL
terminated string. 
.I value 
may contain NULL's since the length of the
value buffer is given by 
.IR len .

.BR urlmapadd ()
is a convenience version of 
.BR urlmapnadd () 
where 
.I value 
is a NULL terminated string.

.BR urlmapaddi ()
is another convenience function where 
.I value 
is an integer.

If the key already exists we fail with errno = EEXIST.

If the 
.I map 
argument is NULL, a new map is created.

.BR urlmapdel ()
should now be self explanatory. Note that the order in the map may no
longer be the same.

.SH "RETURN VALUES"
All the add functions return the pointer to the map, which may not be
the same as passed.  As the array are increased in size, it has been
realloc'ed.

urlmapdel returns 1 if the key existed (and was deleted) and 0 if it
didn't (and no deletion was done.)

.SH "ERRORS"
.TP
.B ENOMEM
From malloc()/realloc(), out of memory.
.TP
.B EEXIST
You tries to add a key that already exists in the map, use 
.BR urlmapset ().

.SH WARNINGS

.SH EXAMPLES

.SH BUGS 

.SH NOTES
The urlencode library is not within the MidWay namespace, nor is it neccessary to include 
the library when compiling a MidWay client or server. It is provided since many of 
these functions are used in the MidWay libraries, and are used extensivly within
MidWay to implement the SRB protocol. 

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR urlmapdecode (3C), 
.BR urlmapencode (3C), 
.BR urlmapnencode (3C), 
.BR urlmapfree (3C), 
.BR urlmapnset (3C), 
.BR urlmapset (3C), 

.SH STANDARDS
NONE
