.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000 Terje Eggestad <terje.eggestad@iname.com>
.\" May be distributed under the GNU General Public License.
.\" $Id$
.\" $Name$
.\"
.TH URLENCODE 3C  DATE "MidWay 1.0" "MidWay Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
urlmapencode, urlmapnencode,urlmapdecode \- Encode and decode of an
URL encoded field list
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <urlencode.h>
.sp
.BI "int urlmapnset (urlmap * " map ", char * " key ", void * " value ", int " len ");" 
.br
.BI "int urlmapset (urlmap * " map ", char * " key ", char * " value ");"  
.br
.BI "int urlmapget (urlmap * " map ", char * " key ");"   

.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.BR urlmapget ()
returns the index into the map array where the key is equal to 
.IR key .

The set functions set a value to a given key. The key must already exists. 
.BR urlmapset ()
takes the key and value as NULL terminated strings, while 
.BR urlmapnset ()
takes a pointer to 
.I len 
bytes, that may contain '\0';


.SH "RETURN VALUES"
On success, the index into the map. -1 and errno of failure. 

.SH "ERRORS"
.TP
.B ENOENT
There are no entry in 
.I map 
with 
.IR key .
.TP 
.B EINVAL
Either 
.IR map or key
are NULL.

.SH WARNINGS

.SH EXAMPLES

.SH BUGS 

.SH NOTES
The urlencode library is not within the MidWay namespace, nor is it neccessary to include 
the library when compiling a MidWay client or server. It is provided since many of 
these functions are used in the MidWay libraries, and are used extensivly within
MidWay to implement the SRB protocol. 

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR urlmapdecode (3C), 
.BR urlmapencode (3C), 
.BR urlmapnencode (3C), 
.BR urlmapfree (3C), 
.BR urlmapnadd (3C), 
.BR urlmapadd (3C), 
.BR urlmapaddi (3C), 
.BR urlmapdel (3C)

.SH STANDARDS
NONE
