.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001 Terje Eggestad <terje.eggestad@iname.com>
.\" May be distributed under the GNU General Public License.
.\" $Id$
.\" $Name$
.\"
.TH MWBD 8 "DATE" Linux "MidWay Users Manual"
.SH NAME
mwbd \- The MidWay broker daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mwbd [-d] [-t] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
The broker daemon exists to provide a well known port for all MidWay
instances running on a host. The broker must run as root, and listen
on port 102 (until further notice) ans on the unix socket 
.BR /var/run/mwbd.socket .

The mwbd is normally started by init thru a rc script.

A gateway daemon
.BR mwgwd (1)
running in a instance connects to the broker on the unix socket and
inform the broker on the domain and instance id the gateway has. If
someone send out a multicast query packet on port 102 the mwbd will
reply with info on which domains and instances connected to it.

If a client connects to the mwbd and request to connect to a given
domain/instance, the mwbd will send the connect request along with the
socket to the appropriate gateway. This is the mechanism that allow
multiple gateways to share the same port.

The mwbd logs to syslog, and only with priority INFO. The 
.BR -d 
option will cause also debugging message to be sent to syslog, as well
as to stderr. The
.BR -t 
option
traces all SRB messages the mwbd receives and sends to 
.BR /var/log/mwbd.trace .

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR MidWay (7),  mwd (1), mwgwd (1)

.SH WARNINGS
We inherit the umask form the shell from where it was started, unless
overridden in the config. umask property to the mwd tag. The normal
shell umask is 0644, which is OK if you want other user than the owner
to attach with IPC. Note that this is the mask that is used for the
shared memory tables, with one exeption, the buffer area that must be
writeable for all tah may attach. That means access bit 0666 if you
let mask be 022. For a more secure setup set mask to 066 which only
allow access by the owner and nobody else. There are infact only three
recommended settings, umask=022, umask = 026, and umask = 066. The
first allows abarybody to attach, the other allow only thr group, and
the last only the owner.

.SH BUGS
If the unix socket is rm'ed the broker must be restarted. It really
shoud rebind the socket.

The name broker daemon is confusing since midway is defined to be a
service broker.
