
MidWay envs:
========================================================================

MWHOME: the directory MidWay uses to place instance files in
MWINSTANCE: the instance name. 
MWADDRESS: the address to contact the mwd. 

the log,bin,run etc directories are located in $MWHOME/$MWINSTANCE



Enviroment vars for servers started my mwd
========================================================================

It's a common mistake to disregard enviroment variable settings when
running servers.  When starting servers from the command line all the
env set by ~/.*.sh and /etc/... files that are parsed during login. 

Since MidWay instances may be started thru rc scripts, there is no
login by the user running the instance. 

Attempting to parse the files is practically impossible, since they
depend on your shell, some set env as a part of X11 logins, like gdm,
some tend to work remotly and only rsh or ssh into the host, etc.

In order to avoid runtime problems due to incorrect set envs a
proactive attitude to envs is necessary. For this reason the envs
given to servers started by the server manager in mwd are NOT
inherited directly from the shell that started mwd. The envs set are
based on environ(5) and resemble when login(1) sets.

Berfore teh config is parsed the following env are set:

PATH is set to a default of _PATH_DEFPATH in /usr/include/paths.h and
the directory where MidWay binaries are places is appended.  HOME,
LOGNAME, USER, LANG, SHELL, and TERM is inherited from the shell
starting mwd.  (HOME, LOGNAME, USER, and SHELL, me be set from
/etc/passwd in the future)

Thats is, no other env are set before the config is read. All changes
must be done in the config (or a wrapper script around you server,
remember to do an exec in the script, see guide lines on using the
server manager).

After the config is parsed, the follow changes is made to the environment:

MWHOME is set, MWADDRESS is set to the ipc address to the mwd, and the
instancename is set in MWINSTANCE. PWD is set to
$MWHOME/$MWINSTANCE/run, as well as the actual cwd. In addition
$MWHOME/$MWINSTANCE/bin is prepended to the PATH.
