.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001 Terje Eggestad <terje.eggestad@iname.com>
.\" May be distributed under the GNU General Public License.
.\" $Id$
.\" $Name$
.\"
.TH MWCALL 1 "DATE" Linux "MidWay Users Manual"
.SH NAME
mwcall \- The MidWay simple client program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mwcall [-A \fIurl\fP] [-l \fIdebuglevel\fP] [-L \fIlogfile\fP] 
[-i \fIinputfile\fP] [-o \fIoutputfile\fP] [-R] service  [data|-] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
This is a command line client that will attach a given instance/domain
call the gived service and (possibly) wait for a reply. This client is
provided for shell scripts and for non-performance critical task.

If 
.B data 
is absent and no - in its place, the data passed to the service may be
gived with the 
.B "-i"
option. The - indicate read data from stdin.

The reply data is normally sent to stdout, but may be
reirected to a file with the 
.B -o
option. 

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI "-l " debuglevel
Indicate the verbosity mwd shall log into the log file. Possible
values are 
.BR "error warning info debug debug1 debug2 debug3 debug4" .
Default is info.
.TP 
.BI "-A " url
The url needed for clients and servers to find the primary shared
memory segment.  If absent we use
.BR ipc:// uid
.
.TP
.B -R
No reply flag, the mwcall will not wait for a reply from the service,
and no returncode from the service is returned. You didn't know if the
service request was successful or even if it was processed. 

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B MWURL
see 
.BR mwd (1). 
.TP
.B MWDIR
see 
.BR mwd (1). 
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR MidWay (7),  mwd (1), readline(3)

.SH WARNINGS
Be sure that you really want to use it. It's slow because it has to
attach an instance before it can send the service request. Since it do
an attach before every service call, it also burden unnecessary the
mwd.

.SH BUGS
No timeout options.
