.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1999 Terje Eggestad <terje.eggestad@iname.com>
.\" May be distributed under the GNU General Public License.
.\" $Id$
.\" $Name$
.\"
.TH MWD 1 "DATE" Linux "MidWay Users Manual"
.SH NAME
mwd \- The MidWay daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mwd
[-l \fIdebuglevel\fP] [-c \fImaxclients\fP] [-C \fImaxconversations\fP] 
[-s \fImaxservers\fP] [-S \fImaxservices\fP]
[-b \fIbufferbasesize\fP] [-B \fIheapsize\fP] 
[-i \fIipckey\fP] [-H \fIruntimediretory\fP] [-g \fImaxgateways\fP] [-D]
[\fIinstancename\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The MidWay daemon is the arbitrator of a MidWay instance. It allocates the needed IPC resources, and
handles all dynamic changes to the running instance. When a server starts or a client 
want to connect it self to the instance, they must ask mwd to do so at their behalf.
.br
On startup it creates as needed the directory structure (see FILES below). 
.br It also perform clean ups after aborted clients and servers.
.br In future versions of MidWay that support TCP/IP as medium in addition to IPC, 
the daemon processes that handles gateways (neigbours) and networked clients 
will be childs or threads of mwd.
.PP
Note that the max numbers, buffer basesize, and heap size are used by mwd at startup to 
calculate the shared memory segment sizes. Since shm segments can't be dynamically resized 
(see shmget(2)) these values are not dynamic and can't be changed without taking the MidWay 
instance down, thus stopping mwd. In future versions of MidWay we may introduce a regime of 
dynamically replacing shared memory segments, but for now you need to have a thougth of how much 
you need.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI "-l " debuglevel
Indicate the verbosity mwd shall log into the log file. Default is 4. 
.BR MWLOG_INFO ,
but it can also be used to set a lower log level, see 
.BR mwlog (3C). 
May also be dynamically set via 
.BR mwadm (1) 
(NYI). 
.TP 
.BI "-c " maxclients
Sets the maximum number of processes (PIDs) that may attach the instance as a client. Default is 100.
.TP
.BI "-C " maxconversations
Sets the maximum conversations that may be established at a given time. Note that if you have 
available conversational servers thru a gateway, they use table entries here as well. 
Default is 20.
.TP
.BI "-s " maxservers
The maximum numbers of processes (PIDs) that may attach the MidWay instance as servers. Note remote tervers available thru gateways are 
.I not 
included here. Default 50.
.TP 
.BI "-S " maxservices
The maximum number or provided services on the instance. If two servers provide the same service
it is counted as 2. However servers in a remote instance are counted as one, or rather per gateway.
Default 100.
.TP
.BI "-b " basebuffersize
The smallest buffer size. mwd will divide the heap (a seperate shared memory segment) info 6 bins.
The bins are holding buffers of size 1, 2, 4, 6,  8, and 16 times the basebuffersize. 
The number of buffers per bin is given by the heap size, and all the same number except for 
1 * basebuffersize which is twice the number. 
For buffers bigger than 16 * basebuffersize stable storeage is used (NYI, 16 * b is currently max). 
Default is 1024 bytes. 
This approach of using bins are modeled on GNU malloc.
.TP
.BI "-B " heapsize
The size of the heap, currently not used. The number of buffers per bin is given by 
(maxclients + maxservers + maxgateways) * 2. 
.TP 
.BI "-A " url
The url needed for clients and servers to find the primary shared
memory segment.  If absent we use
.BR ipc:// uid
.
.TP
.BI "-H " runtimedirectory
See 
.B FILES
below. The directory where MidWay code expect to find config files, and places log and 
other runtime files. NOTE if you set this, you 
.I must
set the environment variable MWDIR for IPC clients and servers.
Default is
.IR  ~/MidWay , 
but will use 
.I ~/.MidWay 
if it exists, and 
.I ~/MidWay 
do not. (I may swap this order in the future.) mwd will honor the environment variable MWDIR as well.
.TP
.BI "-g " maxgateways
The max number of remote MidWay instances we may know about.
.TP
.I instancename
In order for one user to have more than one MidWay instance running each must at least have 
their own IPC key. Without gateways defined neither must have a name set, and are thus being 
anonymous. However, if gateways are defined mwd will announce itself as 
.IR username @ hostname(.ipdomainname) .
It is completly legal to have instances with the same name, but confusion will follow.
.PP
More importanly, in order to avoid collision of the log files and keep config files separate, 
the files are placed under 
.RI $MWDIR/ instancename /. 
See FILES below. In this context the default value is "default". If you use the config file
to generate the IPCKEY, you must of course set the instancename inorder to start to seperate 
instances.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B MWDIR
The runtime directory, may be overidden with the -H option.
.TP
.B MWURL
The url, may be overridden with the -A option.
.TP
.B MWD_SRVMGR_TASK_INTERVAL
The task interval in seconds, default 5 sec. The Server manager task
start dead servers. Normally servers that dies are immediatly
restarted, but if they fail repeatedly, restart is postponed, and done
at a task.
.TP
.B MWD_EVENT_TASK_INTERVAL
The interval in seconds, default 5 secs.  When a client postes an
event it sent to the mwd, and queued. The queue is processed only
every event task. Hence the average time it take an event to sent to
it's subscribers is halv this interval.

.SH FILES
As discussed above the files are located under
.IR MWDIR / instancename
where the defaults are 
.I MWDIR 
= "~/MidWay" and 
.I instancemname 
= "default". Under this directory we have the following files and subdirectories:
.TP
.IB MWDIR/instancename/ bin
For servers run by mwd, the default place mwd will look for them is here. If you give relative path
in mwd.conf for these, thay are relative to tis place. 
.TP
.IB MWDIR/instancename/ conf
Directory for config files. If your servers need their own config files you may place them here, but 
all files beginning with mw or .mw are reserved.
.TP
.IB MWDIR/instancename/ conf/mwd.conf
The config file for mwd, (NYI). See 
.BR mwd.conf (4). 
.TP
.IB MWDIR/instancename/ core
If servers run by mwd core dumps, their core files are moved here, and renamed
.RI core. serverexecutablename . YYYYMMDD . 
.TP
.IB MWDIR/instancename/ logs
The default directory for placing logfiles, see 
.BR mwlog (3C). 
.TP
.IB MWDIR/instancename/ logs/MidWayLog. YYYYMMDD
The default logfile. See 
.BR mwlog (3C). 
.TP
.IB MWDIR/instancename/ run
For servers runned by mwd, default current working directory is set to here before their are started.
.TP
.IB MWDIR/instancename/ tmp
Runtime data, purged by mwd on startup. Unix family sockets for conversations go here, as well as 
large buffers. 
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR MidWay (7),  mwadm (1), mwserver (1), mwgwd (1), mwd.conf (4)
.SH WARNINGS
Not matter what is said above, if you are running two or more instances with the same userid, 
.B always
set 
.I instancename 
on the instances that are not the default.
.PP
Future versions may be POSIX.4 IPC enabled, whenever implementations get into main stream.
When that happen IPC keys become IPC paths.
.SH BUGS
