.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2004 Terje Eggestad <terje.eggestad@iname.com>
.\" May be distributed under the GNU General Public License.
.\" $Id$
.\" $Name$
.\"
.TH MWEVENT 1 "DATE" Linux "MidWay Users Manual"
.SH NAME
mwevent \- The MidWay event poster and watcher
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mwevent [-A \fIurl\fP] [-U \fIusername\fP] [-P \fIpassword\fP] 
[-l \fIdebuglevel\fP] [-L \fIlogfile\fP] 
[-i \fIinputfile\fP]  [-u \fIuser\fP] [-c \fIclient\fP] event  [data|-] 
.sp
.B mwevent -S [-A \fIurl\fP] [-U \fIusername\fP] [-P \fIpassword\fP] 
[-l \fIdebuglevel\fP] [-L \fIlogfile\fP] 
[-o \fIoutputfile\fP] [-r|-E|-g] [-c \fIclient\fP] eventpattern [eventpattern]...

.SH DESCRIPTION
This is a command line client that will attach a given instance/domain
and either sends an event, or with the -S subscribes to a set of
patterns and then forever waits for events and prints them.

  This client is provided for shell scripts and for non-performance
critical task.

If sending an event and 
.B data 
is absent and no - in its place, the data passed to the service may be
the contents of a file gived with the
.B "-i"
option. The - indicate read data from stdin.

The event name and data in received events is normally sent to stdout, but may be
reirected to a file with the 
.B -o
option. 

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.B -S
This option put mwevent into a subscribe mode, and subscribes to the
patterns given as arguments (minimum one). The received events are
either printed to stdout, or to a file specified with the -o option. 

.TP 
.BI "-A " url
The url needed for clients and servers to find the primary shared
memory segment.  If absent we use
.BR ipc:// uid
.
.TP 
.BI "-U " username
The username to login to midway with. 
.TP 
.BI "-P " password
The password for the username to login to midway with. 

.TP 
.B "-r "
Pattern is a regular expression (only legal with -S). 
.TP 
.B "-E "
Pattern is an extended  regular expression (only legal with -S). 
.TP 
.B "-g "
Pattern is a glob (only legal with -S). 
.TP 
.B "-u " user
The username to send events to (not legal with -S).

.TP 
.B "-c " client
The clientname to send events to, or with -S the client name mwevent
will register itself as (default 
.I mwevent
).

.TP 
.B "-i " inputfile
The data to send with an event. (Not legal with -S). 
.TP 
.B "-o " outputfile
File to log all received events event. (Only legal with -S). 
.TP
.BI "-l " debuglevel
Indicate the verbosity we shall log into the log file. Possible
values are 
.BR "error warning info debug debug1 debug2 debug3 debug4" .
Default is info.
.TP
.BI "-L " Logfileprefix 
Without leading path this is just the prefix for the filename in the
logging directory. With a path it either absolute or relative to the
current directory. When using a path the latter part of the prefix
must be the filename. The logging API will append the date, and
autorotate the logs.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B MWURL
see 
.BR mwd (1). 
.TP
.B MWDIR
see 
.BR mwd (1). 

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR MidWay "(7), " mwd "(1), " readline "(3), " glob (7)

.SH WARNINGS

.SH BUGS
No timeout options.
