.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1999 Terje Eggestad <terje.eggestad@iname.com>
.\" May be distributed under the GNU General Public License.
.\" $Id$
.\" $Name$
.\"
.TH MWD 1 "DATE" Linux "MidWay Users Manual"
.SH NAME
mwgwd \- The MidWay gateway daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mwgwd [-A \fIurl\fP] [-l \fIdebuglevel\fP] [-c|-g] 
[-p \fIport\fP] [\fIdomainname\fP]

.SH DESCRIPTION
The gateway daemon handles all TCP/IP traffic for an instance, and
it's what ties an instance to a domain. 

The protocol the gateway implements is the 
.IR "Service Request Broker Protocol" (SRBP).

If no 
.B domainname 
is given, a port must be given, and the gateway will just provide
service for the TCP/IP (SRBP) clients connecting on this port. It's in
an anonymous domain mode.

If a domain name is given, the mwgwd will try to register with the
MidWay broker daemon
.BR mwbd (8).
A port may still be given so that the gateway may be reached on a
private port. The recommended way is to use the mwbd, unless one want
to have a private development instance.

The mwgwd can be configured thru the commandline to handle only
clients or only other gateways. 

A gateway must be started for every domain an instance shall be a
member of.

Thru the brokers multicast query, or per configuration a mwgwd
connects to every other mwgwd providing the same domain (NYI).

.SH OPTIONS
.TP 
.BI "-A " url
The url needed for clients and servers to find the primary shared
memory segment.  If absent we use
.BR ipc:// uid
.
.TP
.BI "-l " debuglevel
Indicate the verbosity mwd shall log into the log file. Possible
values are 
.BR "error warning info debug debug1 debug2 debug3 debug4" .
Default is info.
.TP
.BI "-p " port
Spesify a TCP port to listen on. 
.TP
.BI "-c " 
Only handle clients. Mutual exclusive with -g
.TP
.BI "-g "
Only handle other gateways, thus as a domain interconnect, or foreign
domain export/import. Mutual exclusive with -c

.SH FOREIGN DOMAIN EXPORT/IMPORT
This feature is not yet implemented (NYI). The reason is that a
configuration file must be implemented in the mwd.

The idea is that services in domains the instance is not a member of
can be available by 
.I importing 
a service from a foreign domain. The foreign domain must have 
.I exported
this service. 

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B MWGWD_LOGLEVEL
The loglevel as set with -l option. 
.TP MWGWD_TASK_INTERVAL
The task interval in seconds. The purpose of the task at this time is
to clear connections that never send any data. Just connecting to the
gw's port, without sending data, and doing it a lot will exhaust the
systems maximum socket/file table and is a DoS attack. This allow us
to do the clean up more often. Default is 60 seconds.  Note that if
only the mwbd is used, it's the mwbd that normally do this anti DoS,
however, cleanup of clients on dead nodes is still done by the gw
task.
 
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR MidWay (7),  mwadm (1), mwd (1), mwd.conf (4)

.SH WARNINGS

.SH BUGS
The domain interconnect and foreign domain export/imports are
unimplemented.
