.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1999 Terje Eggestad <terje.eggestad@iname.com>
.\" May be distributed under the GNU General Public License.
.\" $Id$
.\" $Name$
.\"
.TH MWSERVER 1 "DATE" Linux "MiddleWay Users Manual"
.SH NAME
mwd \- The MiddleWay generic server.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mwserver [-A url] [-l \fIdebuglevel\fP] {-s \fIservice[:function]\fP} \fIlibrarys\fP...
.SH DESCRIPTION
This program provides the simplest way of making a service routice in C. You write your 
functions as spesified in 
.BR mwservice (3C). 
Then you link it into a shared library. You give this library as argument to 
.B mwserver
and you tell it via the -s option which functions that you want to provide as a service.
.br
You can give as many -s option and libraries as arguments as you can fit on the command line.
.sp
If you want to have a start up and shutdown procedure then 
.BR dlopen (3) 
specify that for each library you have the function _init is run when the library is loaded, 
and _fini when the library is unloaded.
In addition mwserver will after having loaded all the libraries look for a function 
.IR mwinit . 
The first one and only the first one found in the library list are executed. Likewise on gracefull
shutdown mwserver looks for 
.IR mwexit .

.SH EXAMPLE
Given a C file example.c:
.nf
#include <MiddleWay.h>

int SERVICE1(mwsvcinfo *si) {
.
.
.
mwreply (..);
};
.fi
You now compile it with:
.RS
gcc -c example.c
.br
gcc -shared -o example.so example.o
.RE
Now you start the server by this command:
.RS
mwserver -s SERVICE1 -s service1:SERVICE1 example.so
.RE
Your service routine are now available both as the service 
.B SERVICE1 
and 
.B service1, 
check with 
.BR mwadm (1).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B LD_LIBRARY_PATH
If you don't give the full path of your lib to 
.BR mwserver, 
it will look for your library
in the current working directory, then in the bin directory of your MiddleWay instance (see 
.BR mwd (1). 
After that it will follow the spesification of 
.BR dlopen (3)
with says that it will use 
.BR LD_LIBRARY_PATH , 
.IR /etc/ls.so.cache , " /usr/lib" ", and" " /lib"
in that order to find the library. 
.TP
.B MWURL
see 
.BR mwd (1). 
.TP
.B MWDIR
see 
.BR mwd (1). 
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR MiddleWay (7),  mwadm (1), mwd (1), mwservice (3C), dlopen (3)
.SH WARNINGS
The intention is to make mwd start and stopp servers. If a server started
directly by giving the mwserver command, and it core dumps, it will 
take som 60 - 120 seconds for mwd to clean up (NYI). 
mwserver is intended for development use only.
.SH BUGS
It is not possible to provide the same function/symbol in two librarys.